
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="programming_with_scratch">Programming with Scratch</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
If you have a little bit of experience using Hour of Code or some other basic programming language/environment, we suggest that you really learn about programming by studying Scratch. Even if you have played with Scratch on your own or in school, we suggest that you work through the following materials to build a better foundation for programming.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Programming with Scratch" [1-391] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="level_0_activities_-_getting_started_with_scratch">Level 0 Activities - Getting Started with Scratch</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
We suggest you complete the following activities in order. Even if you have already worked with scratch these are good activities to review.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev0:tut_scratchintro" class="wikilink1" title="lev0:tut_scratchintro">Tutorial : Introducing Scratch and Registering for an Account</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev0:act_exploringscratch_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev0:act_exploringscratch_s">Activity : Exploring Scratch</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev0:act_scratchsurprise_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev0:act_scratchsurprise_s">Activity : Scratch Surprise</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev0:tut_sharinginastudio" class="wikilink1" title="lev0:tut_sharinginastudio">Tutorial : How to share a Project in a Studio</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev0:act_stepbystep_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev0:act_stepbystep_s">Activity : Step by Step</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev0:act_twelveblocks_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev0:act_twelveblocks_s">Activity : 12 Blocks</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Level 0 Activities - Getting Started with Scratch" [392-1004] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="level_1_activities_-_learning_about_the_possibilities_in_scratch">Level 1 Activities - Learning about the possibilities in Scratch</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
We suggest that you complete the following activities in order. However, for the most part you can do them in any order that you like. To get the most out of this level we strongly suggest you finish each of the activities before completing the Mastery Activities.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_initials_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_initials_s">Activity : An Initial Assignment (Absolute/Coordinate motion and the pen menu)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_shapes_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_shapes_s">Activity : Getting in Shape (Relational/Directional motion and the pen menu)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_debugitone_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_debugitone_s">Activity : Debug It #1 (Practicing debugging)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_buildaband_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_buildaband_s">Activity : Build a Band (The sound menu)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_ospc_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_ospc_s">Activity : Orange Square, Purple Circle (The looks menu)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_itsalive_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_itsalive_s">Activity : It&#039;s Alive (Using Costumes)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_debugittwo_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_debugittwo_s">Activity : Debug It #2 (More Practice debugging)</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
These tutorials can be used if you want to learn a little more about the ideas you are learning in the previous activities.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tutorial : Working with the Pen</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tutorial : Creating your own Studio</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tutorial : How to remix a project</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tutorial : Adding Sprites and Costumes</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tutorial : Using the Paint Editor</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tutorial : Using the Sound Tools</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Mastery Activities are designed to be demonstrations of the material you have learned in a level. Only after you have mastered the concepts in this level should you attempt to complete the following activities.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_aboutme_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_aboutme_s"> Mastery Activity : About Me</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_musicvideo_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_musicvideo_s">Mastery Activity : Music Video</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Level 1 Activities - Learning about the possibilities in Scratch" [1005-2625] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="level_2_activities_-_telling_stories">Level 2 Activities - Telling Stories</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
We suggest that you complete the following activities in order. However, for the most part you can do them in any order that you like. To get the most out of this level we strongly suggest you finish each of the activities before completing the Mastery Activities.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_knockknockv1_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_knockknockv1_s">Activity : Knock Knock Joke version 1 (Using timing to coordinate sprites)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_knockknockv2_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_knockknockv2_s">Activity : Knock Knock Joke version 2 (Using broadcasts to coordinate sprites)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_crazyscene_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_crazyscene_s">Activity : It&#039;s a Crazy Scene Man (Exploring the stage a little more)</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_debugitthree_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_debugitthree_s">Activity : Debug It #3</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_hpremix_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_hpremix_s">Activity : Remixing a scene from Harry Potter</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A<a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_otherremix_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_otherremix_s">ctivity : Remixing a scene of your choice</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
These tutorials can be used if you want to learn a little more about the ideas you are learning in the previous activities.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tutorial : Creating new broadcast events</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Tutorial : How to use broadcast events</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Mastery Activities are designed to be demonstrations of the material you have learned in a level. Only after you have mastered the concepts in this level should you attempt to complete the following activities.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_nurseryrhyme_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_nurseryrhyme_s">Mastery Activity : Animating a Nursery Rhyme</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_sceneit_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_sceneit_s">Mastery Activity : Scene It: Animating a Scene from your favorite Book, TV Show or Movie</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Level 2 Activities - Telling Stories" [2626-4085] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="level_3_activities_-_working_with_data">Level 3 Activities - Working with Data</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Level 3 Activities - Working with Data" [4086-4138] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="level_4_activities_-_creating_games">Level 4 Activities - Creating Games</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Level 4 Activities - Creating Games" [4139-4188] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="level_5_activities_-_beyond_the_basics">Level 5 Activities - Beyond the Basics</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Level 5 Activities - Beyond the Basics" [4189-] -->