
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="mastery_activitychoose_your_own_adventure">Mastery Activity : Choose Your Own Adventure</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Ninja Instructions</strong> | <a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev4:act_dreamgame_m" class="wikilink2" title="lev4:act_dreamgame_m" rel="nofollow">Mentor Notes</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Mastery Activity : Choose Your Own Adventure" [2-123] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
You started this level by brainstorming what makes a game a game and what things you liked about games.
</p>

<p>
In the activities for this level you looked at several features:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Using keyboard and mouse actions to control a character on the screen</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Using data/variables to keep track of information needed to control a game and make it interesting.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Techniques common to a wide variety of games to extend the way the game is played/controlled.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
In this activity, you will use some of these features to create a game of your choice.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction" [124-684] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="duration">Duration</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
60 minutes
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Duration" [685-717] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="instructions">Instructions</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Let&#039;s face it.  By this point in the work you probably have lots of ideas for a game that you would like to create.  
</p>

<p>
SO DO IT!
</p>

<p>
There are no specialized instructions for this activity.  You should put it all out there and show your peers that you learned something in this level.  Push yourself and see what you can come up with to make a game you are proud of.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Instructions" [718-1107] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="sharing_your_project_in_the_studio">Sharing your project in the studio</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The studio for this activity is located at:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126916" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126916"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126916</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Sharing your project in the studio" [1108-1285] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="credits">Credits</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This project is based on materials from Dr. Ben Schafer at the University of Northern Iowa.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Credits" [1286-] -->