
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="belt_and_badge_requirements_working_document">Belt and Badge Requirements (working document)</h1>
<div class="level1">
<hr />

<p>
<strong>This document is currently a work in progress.  We do not yet have our formal rules/requirements set in place.  You should feel free to read this page to get an idea of what may be expected as you earn belts and badges in the dojo, but at this point these are developmental guidelines and it should be understood that they may change at any time.  Keep an eye on this page for announcements about final requirements when they are set.</strong>
</p>
<hr />

<p>
Ninjas in the dojo can currently earn three belts for coding progress in Scratch:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> White Belt</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Yellow Belt</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Blue Belt</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Belts will formally be awarded at <strong>belt ceremonies</strong> held approximately quarterly (March, June, September, and December).  Ninjas who feel they have qualified for a belt should notify the dojo Champion approximately one month before the next belt ceremony so that there is sufficient time for the Champion to check documentation and arrange for a demonstration where appropriate.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Belt and Badge Requirements (working document)" [1-1032] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="white_belt">White Belt</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Overview </strong> - The first belt you can earn is your White Belt.  To earn this belt ninjas must attend and participate in five dojo meetings.  During those five meetings ninjas must display some form of advancement in learning about Scratch.  This includes working on the suggested Scratch activities, working on activities of your own creation, posting projects to the dojo Scratch galleries, and/or working with another ninja as a helper or on a collaborative project.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Process</strong>  - This is the only belt earned largely on participation.  We ask you to sign in at the beginning of each dojo meeting.  We will keep track of your attendance.  You need not formally apply for your white belt.  We will automatically award white belts at each belt ceremony to those who have become newly qualified.  If you feel we have missed awarding you this belt please talk to a mentor.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "White Belt" [1033-1930] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="yellow_belt">Yellow Belt</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Overview </strong>  - The Yellow Belt is awarded to ninjas who have completed their white belt and have progressed to demonstrate strong basic competency in working with Scratch.  This includes creating projects involving movement, sound, sprite appearance, and basic storytelling.  This belt roughly correlates to demonstrable mastery of Levels 1 and 2 in the Scratch Programming activities.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Process</strong> - Ninjas who want to earn their yellow belt should begin by creating a studio in their own Scratch account.  This studio should include examples of projects created by the ninja that demonstrate that the ninja understands how to:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> create a new project</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> move a sprite in multiple directions</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> return a sprite to center</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> run a command block</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> with the &#039;Go&#039; sign</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> with a key press</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> play a sound</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> use the “SAY” block</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> change the color of a sprite or object (line)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> draw a line</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> add a background</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> add a sprite</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> change a sprite&#039;s costume</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> show how to animate a sprite using:</div>
<ul>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> one or more repeat blocks</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> at least one &#039;IF&#039; block and</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> 3+ costumes</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
1. Share an original project and collaborate with _at least_ two other ninjas
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Yellow Belt" [1931-3144] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="blue_belt">Blue Belt</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<strong>Overview </strong>  - The Blue Belt is awarded to ninjas who have completed their yellow belt and have progressed to demonstrate advanced competency in Scratch.  This creating projects involving movement, sound, sprite appearance, and basic storytelling.  This belt is considered to be basic mastery of Levels 1 and 2.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Process</strong> - Ninjas who want to earn their yellow belt should begin by creating a studio in their own Scratch account.  This studio should include examples of projects created by the ninja that demonstrate that the ninja understands how to:
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Blue Belt" [3145-] -->