
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activityextending_your_games">Activity : Extending your Games</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Ninja Instructions</strong> | <a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev4:act_extensions_m" class="wikilink2" title="lev4:act_extensions_m" rel="nofollow">Mentor Notes</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Extending your Games" [2-111] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
How can you extend and re-imagine games in scratch?
</p>

<p>
Games have a LOT of places where you can add small features that make them better.  Get into game design by adding extended features within one of you Scratch projects.  Choose at least one (or more!) of the following extensions and add it to your previously started made, pong, scrolling, or fish chomp games.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction" [112-500] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="duration">Duration</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
30-45 minutes each
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Duration" [501-540] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="instructions">Instructions</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Go to the Extensions studio: <br/>
<a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475619" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475619"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475619</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Choose one or more of the following extensions to explore.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Incorporate your choice into your previously started game projects.</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
Extension projects:
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Score</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940443" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940443"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940443</a> <br/>
 Demonstrates how to set and change a score.  Receive 10 points every time the scratch cat is clicked. <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Levels</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940453" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940453"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940453</a> <br/>
  Demonstrates how to change levels.  Score increases by 1 every time the space bar is pressed.  Level increases by 1 for every 10 points.  <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Timer</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940445" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940445"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940445</a> <br/>
  Demonstrates how to use a timer.  Use the mouse to navigate Scratch cat to Gobo. <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Enemies</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940450" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940450"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940450</a> <br/>
  Demonstrates how to add an enemy.  Avoid the tennis ball by using the up and down arrow keys. <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Rewards</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940456" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940456"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1940456</a> <br/>
  Demonstrates how to collect items.  Use the arrow keys to move the Scratch cat around to collect quest items. <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Mouse</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192659" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192659"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192659</a> <br/>
  Demonstrates how to program the mouse to control game play.  Move the mouse to move the paddle. <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Restart</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192935" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192935"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192935</a> <br/>
  Demonstrates how to make a button to restart the game.  Click on the RESTART button to restart. <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Menu</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192991" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192991"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192991</a> <br/>
  Demonstrates how to display a menu screen at the beginning of the game.  Click START or DIRECTIONS on the menu screen. <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Multiplayer</strong> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192711" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192711"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25192711</a> <br/>
  Demonstrates how to add another player to the game.  Player 1 uses the arrow keys to navigate Pico through the maze, and player 2 uses the W, A, S, D keys to navigate Nano through the maze. <br/>
 <br/>
</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
Note:
The backpack is an extremely helpful tool while programming in Scratch.  It can store everything from lines of code, to music files, to sprites, and more.  Try using it to incorporate extensions into your game projects.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Instructions" [541-3135] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="things_to_think_about_when_you_are_done">Things to think about when you are done</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What are the different ways of increasing difficulty in a game?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Which extensions did you add to your game project?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Describe your process for including the extensions in your game?</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Things to think about when you are done" [3136-3379] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="sharing_your_project_in_the_studio">Sharing your project in the studio</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The studio for this activity is located at:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126762" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126762"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126762</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Sharing your project in the studio" [3380-3556] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="credits">Credits</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This project is based on materials from the the <a href="http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide/files/CreativeComputing20141015.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide/files/CreativeComputing20141015.pdf"  rel="nofollow">Creative Computing curriculum</a> by Brennan, Balch, and Chung.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Credits" [3557-] -->