
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activityinitials">Activity : Initials</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_initials_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_initials_s">Ninja Instructions</a> |  <strong>Mentor Notes</strong>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Initials" [2-97] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="purpose">Purpose</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The goals of this activity include:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> exploring coordinate based (absolute) movement in Scratch</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> creating an image using pen-based, logo-like movement</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Purpose" [98-275] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="things_to_watch_for">Things to watch for</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> This activity is somewhat mathematical and requires an understanding of general coordinate systems. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The Scratch stage has x values from -240 to +240 and y values from -180 to +180. These values can NOT be changed.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Things to watch for" [276-531] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="what_to_look_for_when_reviewing_their_work">What to look for when reviewing their work</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Did they, in fact, use the coordinate system (while the coordinates are somewhat hard to use, doing this with relative movement is even more complex).</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Do their coordinates make sense?</div>
<ul>
<li class="level5"><div class="li"> Are they using the screen well.</div>
</li>
<li class="level5"><div class="li"> Are vertical/horizontal lines used when appropriate (we don&#039;t want to force them to “color in the lines”, but we might encourage them to make shapes that are “clean”</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> If their actual letters have “curves” in them have they made an attempt to make a curve? (Not a requirement, but we should encourage stronger students to do so).</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "What to look for when reviewing their work" [532-] -->