
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="mastery_activitychoose_your_own_adventure">Mastery Activity : Choose Your Own Adventure</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Ninja Instructions</strong> | <a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev3:act_cyoa_m" class="wikilink2" title="lev3:act_cyoa_m" rel="nofollow">Mentor Notes</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Mastery Activity : Choose Your Own Adventure" [2-118] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
In the activities for this level you looked at several features:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Using the “ask” block and “answer” peg under the Sensing menu to begin interaction with a human user</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Using the creation of variables under Data menu to store data long term</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Using the conditional “pegs” under the Operators menu to consider various conditions</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Using the selection blocks under the Control menu to decide which course of action to take based on the results of one or more conditionals</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
In this activity, you will use some of these features to create a choose your own adventure story of your choice.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction" [119-737] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="duration">Duration</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
30-60 minutes
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Duration" [738-773] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="instructions">Instructions</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
We bet most of you have read Choose Your Own Adventure books at some point.  In these books the player reads a couple of pages and then is asked to pick between two or three different choices.  For example, you might read about walking through a dark, spooky forest and coming upon an abandoned farm.  You might be asked whether you want to explore the house or the barn first.   <a href="http://www.cyoa.com/" class="urlextern" title="http://www.cyoa.com/"  rel="nofollow">|The official Choose Your Own Adventure website.</a>
</p>

<p>
You can try a basic online version of this idea using this <a href="http://www.angelfire.com/ny/AdventureGame/1.html" class="urlextern" title="http://www.angelfire.com/ny/AdventureGame/1.html"  rel="nofollow">Adventure Game</a>.
</p>

<p>
For this activity you should create a choose your own adventure game of some kind.  It doesn&#039;t have to be long or fancy (although that is awesome if you spend the time to do this).  At a minimum your adventure should:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> ask a human player at least three different questions no matter what choices they make</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> “tell” a story based on the inputs provided by the human user.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> include at least some graphics and pictures that go along with the story (the online version above was pretty boring because it didn&#039;t have much of this).</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Instructions" [774-1919] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="sharing_your_project_in_the_studio">Sharing your project in the studio</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The studio for this activity is located at:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1021840" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1021840"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1021840</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Sharing your project in the studio" [1920-2097] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="credits">Credits</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This project is based on materials from Dr. Ben Schafer at the University of Northern Iowa
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Credits" [2098-] -->