
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activitygame_exploration">Activity : Game Exploration</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Ninja Instructions</strong> | <a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev4:act_gameexploration_m" class="wikilink2" title="lev4:act_gameexploration_m" rel="nofollow">Mentor Notes</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Game Exploration" [2-112] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This activity doesn&#039;t actually involve programming.  Instead, it is just a reflection activity to get you to think about games (both online and offline).
</p>

<p>
One good way to get a feel for all the different ways that things can be done is to look at a bunch of existing programs and see how they work - to answer the question “how did they (the programmers) do that?”  In this activity you won&#039;t be creating any code yourself.  Instead you will be looking at several existing programs and answering both broad and specific questions about how certain things were accomplished in the code.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction" [113-723] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="duration">Duration</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
30-45 minutes
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Duration" [724-758] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="instructions">Instructions</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> One at a time look at the following programs</div>
<ul>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825091/" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825091/"  rel="nofollow">Kaliedescope</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825224/" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825224/"  rel="nofollow">Colorful Ball</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825132/" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825132/"  rel="nofollow">Maze Robot</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825167/" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825167/"  rel="nofollow">Pong</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825199/" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825199/"  rel="nofollow">Fortune Teller</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825341/" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26825341/"  rel="nofollow">Talking Picture</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> For each of the programs answer the following questions:</div>
<ul>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> What happens when you press the green flag?</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Is the game controlled by the keyboard or the mouse (or both)?</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> Take some time to look at the code for each of the sprites and the stage.  How did the programmer get the game to “work”</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> What new feature(s) did you discover while exploring this code?</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> What kinds of games/programs could you create using this feature?</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Find at least one other game that interests you by exploring the Scratch website and answer the same questions again.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Instructions" [759-1842] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="things_to_think_about_when_you_are_done">Things to think about when you are done</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The key to this activity is identifying the new code elements that help the “player” interact with the game.  What did you learn about this idea?</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Things to think about when you are done" [1843-2046] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="credits">Credits</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This project is based on materials from Dr. Ben Schafer at the University of Northern Iowa and programs found on Scratch.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Credits" [2047-] -->