
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activitydebug_it_3">Activity : Debug It #3</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Ninja Instructions</strong> | <a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev2:act_debugitthree_m" class="wikilink1" title="lev2:act_debugitthree_m">Mentor Notes</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Debug It #3" [2-103] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
One of the more important skills to have as a programmer is the ability to read and fix other people&#039;s code. In this activity you will study five programs that don&#039;t work the way that the programmer wanted them to. You will see what you can do to fix them.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction" [104-384] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="duration">Duration</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
15-30 minutes
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Duration" [385-419] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="requirements">Requirements</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Go to the Debug It #3 studio</div>
<ul>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/909878/" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/909878/"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/909878/</a></div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> For each of the five debugging challenges:  </div>
<ul>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> read the instructions</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> test and debug so that the program does what it is supposed to do</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Write down your solution or remix the program with your solution</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Requirements" [420-790] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="suggestions">Suggestions</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Make a list of possible bugs in the program.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Keep track of bugs that you see. This can be a great way to help you find bugs in your future work - by reviewing mistakes you have made or seen in the past.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Share and compare your method for finding and fixing the problem with another Code Dojo member. Sometimes there is more than one way to solve a problem and it helps to see multiple solutions.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Suggestions" [791-1222] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="things_to_think_about_when_you_are_done">Things to think about when you are done</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> For each:</div>
<ul>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> What was the problem?</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> How did you identify the problem?</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> How did you fix the problem?</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Can you see other ways to solve the problem?</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Things to think about when you are done" [1223-1451] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="credits">Credits</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This project is based on materials from the the <a href="http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide/files/CreativeComputing20141015.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide/files/CreativeComputing20141015.pdf"  rel="nofollow">Creative Computing curriculum</a> by Brennan, Balch, and Chung and code originally written by the Scratch Ed Team but has been modified to fit current expected progress of the Cedar Valley Coder Dojo.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Credits" [1452-] -->