
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="welcome_to_the_cedar_valley_coderdojo">Welcome to the Cedar Valley CoderDojo</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
CoderDojo is a global network of free, volunteer-led, independent, community based programming clubs for young people. These young people learn how to code, develop websites, apps, programs, games and explore technology in an informal and creative environment. In addition to learning to code attendees meet like minded people and get to show off what they&#039;ve been working on.
</p>

<p>
Our dojo is a joint effort between the public libraries in Cedar Falls and Waterloo, IA. Once we get rolling we will meet on a regular schedule of first (Cedar Falls) and third (Waterloo) Saturdays of each month. Participants (“Ninjas”) are welcome to come to meetings at both locations.
</p>

<p>
The dojo is mentored by a variety of individuals from around the Cedar Valley with a variety of backgrounds ranging from professional programmers and web designers to college professors to self-taught parents. The one thing that we all have in common is an interest in helping students in grades 5-12 to get started learning about computer programming. There is a focus on community, peer learning, youth mentoring and self led learning with an emphasis on openness, helping others and showing how coding is a force for change in the world.
</p>

<p>
CoderDojo makes development and learning to code a fun, sociable experience where the two key rules are:
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Be Cool.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Be Ferocious!</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
To get started with our dojo explore the links below.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=hoc" class="wikilink1" title="hoc">Getting Started with Hour of Code</a> - Are you brand new to programming.  These overview tutorials from Code.org are great ways to learn a little bit about the basics of coding.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=scratch" class="wikilink1" title="scratch">Learning to Program in Scratch</a> -  Are you ready to explore an actual programming language?  Scratch is the first language we will teach and learn in our dojo.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=student_info" class="wikilink1" title="student_info">Information for Parents and Students</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/~schafer/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=mentor_info" class="wikilink1" title="mentor_info">Information for Mentors</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
