
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activitybuild_a_band">Activity : Build A Band</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_buildaband_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_buildaband_s">Ninja Instructions</a> |  <strong>Mentor Notes</strong>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Build A Band" [2-103] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="purpose">Purpose</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The goals of this activity include:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> creating a program that combines interactive sprites with interesting sounds</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> developing greater fluency with sequence, loops, events, and parallelism</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> practice experimenting and iterating in building up project creations</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Purpose" [104-393] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="things_to_watch_for">Things to watch for</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> There is a lot of flexibility here. Having said that, the directions show a few specific examples. Did students make an effort to explore and be creative or did they just copy down the examples in the directions?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Students may want to explore other events that cause sounds to play. This is fine. However, commands to play various instruments shouldn&#039;t be hidden from view. That is, you should understand how to make things work without the student explaining it. If not, ask them to add some instructions or change things to be as intuitive as possible.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Things to watch for" [394-988] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="what_to_look_for_when_reviewing_their_work">What to look for when reviewing their work</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Do projects make creative use of sound?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Are the sprites in the projects interactive?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Did they use loops for one or more sprites?</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "What to look for when reviewing their work" [989-] -->