
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activityinteraction_puzzles">Activity : Interaction Puzzles</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Ninja Instructions</strong> | <a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev4:act_interactions_m" class="wikilink2" title="lev4:act_interactions_m" rel="nofollow">Mentor Notes</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Interaction Puzzles" [2-112] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
What differentiates a Scratch Project from a still image or a video
</p>

<p>
Tackle these nine puzzles that engage some of the more advanced concepts in Scratcdh realted to interactivity.  Each of these challenges has several possible solutions.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction" [113-375] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="duration">Duration</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
30-45 minutes each
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Duration" [376-415] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="instructions">Instructions</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Create a scratch program for each of the nine interaction puzzles.  When you get a solution take some time to look at OTHER solutions in the studio so that you can see some of the alternatives.
</p>

<p>
Puzzles:
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Puzzle 1:  Whenever you press the B key, the sprite gets a little bigger.  Whenever you press the S key, the sprite gets a little smaller.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Puzzle 2:  Whenever the sprite hears a loud sound it changes color.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Puzzle 3:  The player can move the sprite around using keys or the mouse.  Whenever the sprite is in the top 25% of the screen it says “I like it up here”</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Puzzle 4:  When the sprite touches something blue, it plays a high note.  When the sprite touches something red, it plays a low note.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Puzzle 5:  Whenever two sprites collide one of them says “Excuse me”</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Puzzle 6:  Whenever the cat spite gets near the dog sprite the dog turns and runs away from the cat.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Puzzle 7:  Whenever you click on the background a flower appears at that spot.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Puzzle 8:  Whenever you click on a sprite, all other sprites do a dance.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Puzzle 9:  Whenever you move the mouse-pointer, the sprite follows but doesn&#039;t touch the mouse-pointer.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Instructions" [416-1629] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="things_to_think_about_when_you_are_done">Things to think about when you are done</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Which puzzles did you work on?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What was your strategy for solving the puzzles?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Which puzzles helped you think about your game project?</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Things to think about when you are done" [1630-1828] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="sharing_your_project_in_the_studio">Sharing your project in the studio</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The studio for this activity is located at:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126790" class="urlextern" title="http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126790"  rel="nofollow">http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/1126790</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Sharing your project in the studio" [1829-2005] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="credits">Credits</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This project is based on materials from the the <a href="http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide/files/CreativeComputing20141015.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide/files/CreativeComputing20141015.pdf"  rel="nofollow">Creative Computing curriculum</a> by Brennan, Balch, and Chung.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Credits" [2006-] -->