
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activitystep-by-step">Activity : Step-by-Step</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev0:act_stepbystep_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev0:act_stepbystep_s">Ninja Instructions</a> |  <strong>Mentor Notes</strong>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Step-by-Step" [2-103] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="purpose">Purpose</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The goals of this activity is to have the ninjas create  a simple program while giving them an opportunity to see:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> movement</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> sound</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> repetition</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> speaking</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> colors</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> key press events</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> backgrounds</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> adding sprites</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The activity is very cookbook in the beginning, but the goal is that they see a lot of the potential in Scratch. They are encouraged to explore once they complete the basics.
</p>

<p>
While it isn&#039;t a huge discussion point, this activity also models the concept of <strong>incremental development</strong> - that is, the process of building a larger program in small, manageable steps, testing between each step to make sure it is doing what we want it to do.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Purpose" [104-798] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="things_to_watch_for">Things to watch for</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> It is probably a good idea to have the ninjas complete the first 12 steps as written first. Only after that should they deviate significantly. While exploration and customization is STRONGLY enocuraged overall, we want to make sure that they don&#039;t make such a significant change in an earlier step such that a later step won&#039;t work.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Even though this is very cookbook in the beginning, as always, encourage discussion between neighbors. We want to foster a community of “How did you do that!”</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Things to watch for" [799-1332] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="what_to_look_for_when_reviewing_their_work">What to look for when reviewing their work</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Were the ninjas able to open Scratch and find the Tips section?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Were they able to create a dancing cat?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Were they able to save and share their project?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ask them about incremental development?</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "What to look for when reviewing their work" [1333-1596] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="ways_to_extend_this_activity">Ways to extend this activity</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Challenge the student to do more. Play with adding new blocks, sounds, motion, etc. Once they have the basics down they should feel comfortable exploring new blocks.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The “Music and Dance” theme in the sprite library has a number of great characters with multiple dance moves. Have them revisit step #10 in the guide and add additional sprites.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Ways to extend this activity" [1597-] -->