
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activityorange_square_purple_circle">Activity : Orange Square, Purple Circle</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev1:act_ospc_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev1:act_ospc_s">Ninja Instructions</a> |  <strong>Mentor Notes</strong>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Orange Square, Purple Circle" [2-113] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="purpose">Purpose</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The goals of this activity include:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> allowing students to express their creativity by completing an arts-themed challenge</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> gain more fluency with Looks blocks and the paint editor</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Purpose" [114-321] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="things_to_watch_for">Things to watch for</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> This will be a project students may be tempted to pound out in just a few minutes and “submit for credit.” Try to encourage exploration and creativity.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> If students have questions, remind them that they can open the Tips Window to learn more about specific blocks or different parts of the Scratch editor.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Scratch supports both bitmap and vector graphics. This is both a good thing and a confusing thing as different styles support different features. If a student is struggling with a graphic, work with them to explore bitmap vs. vector graphics and see if one makes more sense than the other.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Things to watch for" [322-961] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="what_to_look_for_when_reviewing_their_work">What to look for when reviewing their work</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Do projects include an orange square and a purple circle?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ask students to explain some of the things they tried but didn&#039;t use in their final project.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "What to look for when reviewing their work" [962-] -->