
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activitydream_game_brainstorm">Activity : Dream Game Brainstorm</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Ninja Instructions</strong> | <a href="/~schafer/outreach/dojo/doku.php?id=lev4:act_brainstorm_m" class="wikilink1" title="lev4:act_brainstorm_m">Mentor Notes</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Dream Game Brainstorm" [2-112] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This activity doesn&#039;t actually involve programming.  Instead, it is just a reflection activity to get you to think about games (both online and offline).
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction" [113-291] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="duration">Duration</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
15-30 minutes
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Duration" [292-326] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="instructions">Instructions</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Generate a list of games that you enjoy playing.  Begin by writing down as many as you can think of.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Go back over the list that you just made and identify your favorites - maybe your top 5 or so.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Look at your two lists.  Think about the following questions:</div>
<ul>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> What do the games on the lists have in common?</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> What features of their design make them fun?</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> What features of their design make them *a game*?</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Now take some time to imagine your dream game.  Write down:</div>
<ul>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> a list of design elements for that game.</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> What will you need to use if you wanted to program that game?</div>
</li>
<li class="level4"><div class="li"> What will you need to know about programming before you could program that game?</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Instructions" [327-1077] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="things_to_think_about_when_you_are_done">Things to think about when you are done</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The key to this activity is identifying the design elements that make something a game and, hopefully, a FUN game.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Things to think about when you are done" [1078-1249] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="credits">Credits</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This project is based on materials from the the <a href="http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide/files/CreativeComputing20141015.pdf" class="urlextern" title="http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide/files/CreativeComputing20141015.pdf"  rel="nofollow">Creative Computing curriculum</a> by Brennan, Balch, and Chung.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Credits" [1250-] -->