
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="activitytwelve_blocks">Activity : Twelve Blocks</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<a href="/~schafer/dojo/doku.php?id=lev0:act_twelveblocks_s" class="wikilink1" title="lev0:act_twelveblocks_s">Ninja Instructions</a> |  <strong>Mentor Notes</strong>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Activity : Twelve Blocks" [2-106] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="purpose">Purpose</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
While completing this activity students will:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> create a project with the constraint of using only 12 blocks</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
This causes students to think about the fact that even 12 simple commands can generate a lot of cool outcomes.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Purpose" [107-349] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="things_to_watch_for">Things to watch for</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Encourage creativity.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Encourage collaboration and “show and tell” moments. Be willing to ask all or part of the group to come over and see something cool that one person is doing.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> If this were a classroom I would plan a show and tell timeframe to demonstrate that there can still be a lot of diversity from only those 12 blocks. In a dojo that is a little harder to do but it can still be accomplished by encouraging students to explore the studio as it builds up.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Things to watch for" [350-860] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="what_to_look_for_when_reviewing_their_work">What to look for when reviewing their work</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Did they use EACH of the 12 blocks at least once? (They are supposed to use each one.)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Did they use any blocks beyond the 12? (They aren&#039;t supposed to.)</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "What to look for when reviewing their work" [861-1077] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="ways_to_extend_this_activity">Ways to extend this activity</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Encourage a pair of students to review each others projects in the studio and each one consider HOW the other person made their program do what it does.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> While the idea of remix hasn&#039;t been taught formally yet, we might consider ways that students could take someone elses work and modify it.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Ways to extend this activity" [1078-] -->